all right so everyone my name's sander I
work with textile photos we originally
started because we wanted to build a
really useful application on top of ipfs
and we figured that mobile was the place
to do it because it didn't seem like a
lot of people were attacking that space
and slowly over time we've kind of grown
our vision our mission is found more
into wanting to provide a a more like a
distributed database and application
platform kind of like a we like to think
of it as a decentralized iCloud so let
me if I can share my screen here not
familiar with zoom so bear with me
there's a green thing at the bottom of
the zoom window that's a share like we
that narrow looks like you got it
excellent okay so what is textile this
is you have a modified version of our
readme so it's really texty so again we
like to think of textile is providing
encrypted recoverable schema based and
cross application data storage those on
IP ffs and loop p2p again we think of it
as like a decentralized iCloud in the
future or that's that's kind of our
mission decentralize an overnight cloud
that developers and users can build upon
so the what we want to enable people to
do with textile and talk about users is
to the applications and services
securely store your photos videos
documents or any other type of file chat
with friends and family and access your
data from anywhere wherever you are so
these are kind of a poor if you look at
it if you look at the core values of
iCloud we're sort of trying to match
those so iCloud you know it's a great
place for your photos your files it's
accessible wherever you are it's safe
it's up to date you can you know you can
take your files with you you can put any
type of file in there you can
collaborate with others and if you think
about it it's like you know your
messages if you're if you're an Apple
user cube Apple devices your messages
are part of iCloud or the applications
that you use are all powered by cloud
obviously your data so we thought about
this we originally in tak tacular photos
because photos are just a really easy
type of
data to think about in terms of like
user ownership so everyone understands
what you can do with photos people
understand you know they there's
different types of privacy around your
photos you don't want your entire camera
roll to the beat open to the public but
you might want to share with the groups
and so I'll skip some of this stuff we
are trying to enable people to build
other apps like textile photos we have a
mobile SDK that you can plug in for iOS
and Android and we're trying to Bill it
as something that just for the average
application developer is someone that
might not really be sold on
decentralization this is fairly but that
they can dive into and actually find
that it makes their life easier
so like they can maybe skip user
management they have a you know like a
datastore just taking care of messaging
so something like a firebase or a realm
for those of you familiar with that kind
of stuff so how does it work the at the
core of textile is what we think of as
an account wallet so it's an HD wallet
it's kind of inspired by Stellar's
wallet it's backed by a mnemonic phrase
so you can generate all these any number
of deterministic accounts in in this
wallet and then you would use each one
of those to initialize the textile node
and that's how your data the syncs
between your different devices at a high
level so the the main sort of most
important data structure is this concept
of operation basis TR DT to recall a
thread so there's different type
of updates to go into the threads
there's peers joining leaving data being
added comments messages and it's really
just to get like half Street where each
you know if there's a case where a large
misshapen which is almost all the time
because if you're in the mobile world
you're always going on and offline so
you get out of the sync really fast so
we end up having this really wide hash
tree but this is our sort of our first
stab at this
that's really not terribly complicated
it's just there's a deterministic merge
rule that happens it basically just
takes the earlier date and creates
another block in the thread that can be
recreated on other peers so like if they
have the same few parents we know
they'll always result in the same exact
block ash so all these all these little
updates we call them blocks are stored
on my PFS and because they're hash
linked together you can Traverse back
and recover a thread or if you're
joining it someone else's thread you can
traverse back and get all the older
history and it's to here so this is an
example here I know this looks terrible
explode up like this okay so here is an
example hypothetical users account
wallet so they've got these different
accounts and let's say that in their
first account they have these certain
threads so we actually tracked
your different devices and these could
be other apps with with the thread so it
only tracks joins and leaves of those
peers and then this might be like
someone's camera roll and it's a private
thread that all the peers from that
account of join let's say and started
adding files and they might have like
some videos or or like a chat thread so
forget in thinking of like that icon
analogy you've got your photos your your
different chapter heads and see so one
of the other large components of this
system is what we call Kathy nodes so
because obviously we want to do
everything we can peer-to-peer but
because of the need for in the mobile
world you want to really handle offline
robustly so you run into that all the
time so what we do is we put the same
text down notes up into cloud we run we
run them in on Amazon and they provide
offline name boxing services to other
peers so if I send you a message and
you're offline I will I will know I
better from the previous thread that
I've been with you or from your IPS user
profile I'll know where your inboxes are
so I can send to your various kind of a
inboxes and then when you come back
online you don't like those messages so
looking at the anode of rambling fast
who is so feel free to interrupt me at
any point
so looking at the internal components
here so obviously we're unlike the efest
node if it's in them in the mobile use
case it's just a client node so it's
only there to be able to traverse the
network and we have two p2p services
there's the thread service that's the
CRB teeth service that worthless
trinkets state pink ears and then we
have this cafe service that you can
register with with different nodes and
you'll open a user session just a JWT
session and anytime you've got a data to
the network you'll actually pin it on
those cafes and then there's the offline
inboxing service i mentioned earlier and
so locally you want to be able to like
list the files or photos you've added
type EFS and that's what this files API
is for there's a similar one for just
plain messages for listing the different
messages in threads and then other
components are is the wallets file
schemas I'll get into in a second and
then this concept of file mills it's
related to schemas so one of the core
pieces of what we're doing is trying to
make as part of this decentralize iCloud
mission is trying to make a way for
people to easily add structured data
type DFS so we've come up with this
system called it's similar to transload
it that i've used in past block types
and which is a really
nice service or if you wanna in your
application need to define how like it
ingests files or videos so I want to
take this image and I want to create
these multiple different sizes and
thumbnails so I'm one of maybe extract
some exif data that kind of thing so in
textile photos we actually use a file
schema that looks like this
so this translates directly into a dag
node and you can define what pieces you
want encrypted and each one of these
links not surprisingly becomes a dagger
node link so this setup here says
essentially let's take the raw image
data well in this case it doesn't care
if it's an image so just take the raw
data we want to save the original and
we're gonna send it to translate calls
these robots like encoding robots and we
call them Nils because
textile so you send the raw data to the
vlog mill that just encrypted and stored
it not DFS and then it takes the output
from that mill and it extracts the exist
a dot here that I don't take that
simultaneously it'll take the output
from the raw and will create these
different sizes here using this image we
saw the same point so there's this is a
mobile client in the mobile world it
actually this is running on the node in
the phone it's not hitting like a remote
at endpoint but you can imagine if you
want to make a service on a server and
do something similar let's see so with
the results nana's this is kind of small
but a dag instruction that looks like
this so we've got still we only added
one file here so we've just got one
index and we've got all these different
links and then each each link results in
a determined
deed for data link and this /f here
which means it's going to show like the
index of the data so I can show you that
so the reason we do the index of the
file is because because it's the
encryption is not ideally deterministic
no you don't want to keep adding the
same file over and over so each node
locally will keep track of all the files
that are in its node and you can look at
the pre ash of a file based on it's
Puckle index you can use that with in
combination with the options that were
used to create that file to determine if
it's already in the system so you're not
continually adding the same files so
we're getting close to having a usable
version that you could build on top of
the main pieces were finishing off the
mechanisms for account recovery so we're
doing all the backup to your cafes but
we're missing the piece where you ask
the network for your all your thread
back notes so that's the tip of all your
threads so oh just be like give me all
my you know in icon world that's really
easy you just ask Apple hey I'm proving
that I am Who I am we do that they get
out of apple idea we're doing that with
your mnemonic see you say to the network
this is who I am
I need like who's got my stuff basically
so we're doing that with mostly with
pump zone so dedicated channels on all
the cafe's that we ask for specific
people users back outs and just a note
about final coin we we don't love the we
always I think we see like I need to
have these cafes these federated nodes
this is something like this but in terms
of being the place where everything's
pin
we'd like to swap that out for for five
points every hopefully we would running
like a file calling node in the excel
cafe weirdest cures
I guess I could show some other types of
schemas so you can use Jason the schemas
here so if your application needs to
this one's kind of depressing like a
third if you want to ingest log data for
example you can define on Jason's team
that looks like this so it's got you
know this is the forgot the name of the
spec but some log spec requires these
fields and all those would be anything
out of two threaded and then over here
really small but you can I guess the
simplest each case of the program is
just like a chat so we have a textile
command line client has a chat sub
commands so you can just invite people
to a thread and just start chatting you
know so what's going on here is the each
message is being backed up to their
respective cafes and because I'm local
they're just talking directly to each
other if I was to take one offline they
would communicate via the boxing I think
that's pretty overview
thank you very much sander we're
actually going to get into the Q&A part
so if you have a question if you can
just put it in the chat that would be
excellent our our first question is from
Hannah Hannah you're right yeah I was
each message thread is encrypted with
the threads the threads key public key
so these are each message is actually a
protocol buffer so if it's pointing to
like a d-bag know it or something it
just you know has a hash at that you
know so they're all really really tiny
but yeah there would be encrypted by the
threads key
so if I invite you to a thread there's a
couple ways to do that
I can I can take the thread key and I
can encrypt it with your public key or I
can encrypt it with a like at one time
just a es key and put that on my PFS and
then send you a link to that and then if
I somehow give you that you could
download that's for like if you're
trying to get a new user and that's a
good way to do it because you can just
text the URL so that doing that kind of
it's like permanently public in a way so
there are different thread types that we
haven't fully fleshed out there is right
now the ones that are flushed out are
open thread which means anyone can
create invites anyone else and then a
private thread which doesn't accept
invites and that would be like for your
free or account or device peers we use
an internal party for that I'm sorry I
hate to interrupt if you don't mind
we're actually going to move on to next
question if that's okay not least two
questions one is do you use any of the
built-in files apos like em FS for
octopus or did you build all that are
you directly manipulating the tag and
you built your own files related API and
then totally unrelated are you familiar
with triple I F the international image
interoperability framework and their API
is for images and manipulating images
did you consider using that to use that
as a reference reference point but think
about schemas and things so the brief um
we don't use that we just you know the
the actual data is still broken up into
into the blocks so it's kind of more of
our level concept above file
and you know file it could be adjacent
object or but yes it's when you create a
photos schema and then create a thread
with that it does do the validation so
like if I send you a DAC note that it's
supposed to beat on it into that thread
my note might reject it because it will
walk that the data figure I've required
links her in there I think the right
content types
but and then a second question
no I that sounds awesome though I didn't
know about that one
we should talk about yeah let me sweets
is right right now it's this I mean I
guess I kind of just like it's fairly
analogous to transloaded the transloaded
purpose in the sense of like it'll you
know walks through stuff stepwise some
figured out what needs to happen but you
have em you know so we currently only
have like a way to resize images and
extract exit from it but it's it's
laudable like you could if you wanted to
figure out how to handle like PDFs or we
definitely laundry video in the skin or
audio or whatever so that would be very
time to get like a real respect
excellent thank you
next question goes to Davi I have a
bunch so I'm having a hard time like so
yeah this is amazing work and I full
support of creating the firebase or
something and I know that the let me
data working group is also working on
something newer I'm wondering if you are
familiar with the work that they are
doing and how much of this is like
custom audience and how much like does
it map to to pierced an app and pierced
are
also last week I talked with with with
Pedro and Jeremy and we're definitely
like I really want to to not build like
a castle and sky custom thing so very
much in reston collaboration and you
know if there's built-in core stuff that
emerges from dynamic data I'd love to
use that and yeah I'm curious too and
there so like if there are some specific
design decisions match to the things
like that well so oh yeah your star so
we have these profiles that's really
just a super basic like we don't if
someone had a really nice identity
solution or something like that it would
just we would hope to just plug that in
like we don't we don't really want to be
the business of creating and yet another
solution there or something that it
requires you be in textile so it would
be awesome to be able to you know enter
the textile into that space with you
know an existing do you even like it
okay we are going to take one more
question from Jim okay just quickly you
guys have really done great work trying
to get this on iOS and Android and that
seems like incredible engineering effort
I'm very curious about what limits
you've seen with performance and power
consumption and performant and things we
can help out with so honestly I can tell
you it's not great it's definitely and
it's actually one of the trickiest
things is starting and stopping the node
and all that and laying around when it
comes out line the the various things
that you can do now when you're online
versus the various things you can do
when it's just yeah started state or you
can like add data to your local node and
stuff like that be can for example use
any to live in peace ervices so that
that's at this point it would be I feel
like it's gonna be cumbersome for just
someone to pick it up and start building
with we really want to improve that
experience but you know the things like
that are really be I wish it better
number or any any numbers around like
power consumption we just kind of like
just hope the phones get more powerful
well sander thank you very much for
giving your time and talking about
textile yeah thank you very much we will
be following the developments of textile
photos and yeah if you need to get help
from us we're I mean you're part
it always ping us we can with ping you
thank you everyone I would like to also
thank Alan for taking notes and I'll see
everyone next week have a great week
take care bye okay can I get it any
bikes today event like